I grew up as the only child between a separated Mother and Father. I had live with relatives since I was 2 years old. I joined my Father when it was time to start school, and all through primary and secondary school i made him proud with good grades. I had a dream to study Information Technology Abroad but my father barely had enough to give me just the basics as a child. However there was only one school in Nigeria that offered Information Technology as a course at  that time. I wrote the University Matriculation Board examinations several times, and although i passed, i could not secure admission into this school. The bad thing in Nigeria is that this exams comes once a year and you could only apply to only choice of school, if for any reason you cant secure the admission , you have to try again the following year. This went on for several years. Along the line I started to take some courses on Information system tools and i developed my self by learning programming with books and the internet to get  as much skills as possible.

It wasnt a very easy task, because the internet and even electricty is not stable in Nigeria, sometimes you have to rely on generator and scarce petrol but i sailed through and as i get more knowledge on programming, i got more job opportunities. This opportunities led me to enrol in a Unversity on partime basis back in Nigeria to study business admininstration. But i didnt want study  business, besides the school was not promising as endless staff  strikes plageued the institiution, and this coupled with the low quality tution that was available. I thought i did rather not give up on  my dream of  studying information technology where i am already knowledgable and  i decided to start gathering funds for my dream of study abroad. I started by enroling for an advance diploma in software a engineering from Aptech, A Quality computer Education Institute Established by Indians, with the hope of futhering my dreams to study abroad.

The story of the hardships that the ordinary citizen go through due to the low standard of living and bad governace in Nigeria is not new to the world, but yet Nigerians can boast of the rarest talents in Africa. Nigerians in diaspora work very hard and often get to the peak of there career, they are are among the best students in the US and UK, and even in the workplaces, Nigerians are one of the highest paid foriegners.

Also in NIgeria, when it comes to the use of the internet and cyber crimes, there is a lot of negative image for Nigerians because of Popular Nigerian email scams. A lot of youngsters are wasting there tme trying to take advantage of the worldwide connection and interaction that the internet provides to get finacial benefits form other people by a way that is no means legal. This is not peculiar to Nigeria, Cyber crimes, social engineering hacks, and electronic fraud are just a few of the perils of the growing use of Information technology systems in the world.

While many youths respond to the effect of bad governace on our society by taking the cyber crime route, I had devoted my self to learning software and programming tools to help me become self sufficient. with self learning , i managed to acquire enough skills to get me involved with programming  projects for numerous startups in Nigeria. 

I worked for many years like this and prayed for the best opportunity to top my knowledge with a university degree. I finally got through when Middlesex opened a branch campus at Mauritius which was more affordable than the one in the UK. Now i have bagged my degree and i intend to further on this route. This year i will be 33 years old, and i will love the opportunity to continue my studies while i am still young.

I want to come to Bradford to pursue a course of study in cybersecurity at masters level. The next step for me in my career will be to learn to secure the world from the hands of many cyber criminals of today who are taking advantage lopholes in technology and the unsuspecting user who lacks the knowledge of system works.

Bradford is one of the 2 or 3 unversities offering cyber secury at masters level and also with an opportunity for a scholarship like this. I cannot afford to take this course at the level of quality that Bradford delivers, this is why i need this scholarship to help me be a master at my Field. 

It is worth mentioning that Middlesex University Mauritius Branch Campus found my final year Thesis Titled, "A STUDY OF ONLINE SOCIAL NETWORKS IN MAURTIUS, IMPACT ON TERTIARY EDUCATION "  good enough to be published. The major findings of this research work is that social networks can provide benefits for the students learning despite its perils, but it has to be specifially harnessed for academic purposes to get this benefits, otherwise it poses a threat to students life. Apart from the exposure to social engineering hacks, privacy invasion, and cyber bulling or cases of inappropriate conduct, it also affects the way students write in academic essays and it is also a waste of time for them as the primary purpose why students in Mauritius go on social networks is entertainment.

I look forward to a favorable response on my Application for this once in a life time Scholarship Offer.